rethink your marketing with this
unorthodox concept i was born in london
my mom was born in india my dad was born
in uganda when i was a baby my mom and
dad wanted to move to america so we
ended up making our way to sunny
california now in india my mom had a
teaching degree but here in america her
degree wasn't valid so she had to go
back to college and take some classes so
she could be a teacher and once she did
that she still struggled to get a job
people just didn't want to hire her no
matter how hard she tried so what did my
mom do give up nope
she went to the local preschools and
said hey
i'll teach for free for six months
and if you like me hire me if not you
don't have to hire me you get me for
free for six months now my mom had my
sister and i and my dad was working as
well so she made a deal with the school
she'll teach for free for six months but
they also had to let my sister and i go
to that school and be there for free
because not getting paid as a teacher
she couldn't afford to put us in daycare
now fast forward six months can you
guess what happened
my mom worked her tail off she got a
paid job that was the start of her
career in essence what my mom did was
take the free approach she got her foot
in the door by offering something for
free and eventually she up sold herself
one trend that i've seen over the years
is marketing is continually getting more
and more expensive this is also partly
because companies figured out how to
generate more revenue per customer so
over time they're willing to spend more
money on marketing now this doesn't mean
that you shouldn't do marketing you
should do it because it can be extremely
profitable but another cost effective
alternative strategy that you can use is
giving away something for free of value
this can help boost your conversion rate
and help you bring down your cost to
acquire customer even though you're
eating the cost of giving away something
for free
let me give you an example of how i use
this strategy in 2017 i bought a company
called ubersuggest for 120 000. i
removed the ads improved the tool and
gave it away for free a portion of those
visitors were interested in our ad
agency services so we sold them on
marketing services it was an effective
strategy that my ad agency neil patel
digital used and it helped us grow to be
the 21st fastest growing company in
united states according to ink magazine
you can also run the same approach with
a physical product like an ecommerce
site have you ever heard of the company
aurabrush they would give away a free
tongue cleaner you just have to pay for
shipping they would then make their
money by upselling you on things like
toothbrushes mouthwash and even
toothpaste this strategy works so well
that they got acquired by a company
called dentec which then got acquired by
a larger company owned by gtcr which is
a private equity company that has
roughly 29 billion dollars under
management it doesn't matter if you're
selling a physical product or service
there are things that you can offer for
free the key with this strategy are a
few things first whatever you offer for
free must have perceived value for
example if i were offering pens for free
it wouldn't have much value because you
can find pens anywhere you can probably
find them on the ground on the street
the higher the perceived value the
better it will work
second what you are giving away for free
can't be too expensive for you if you're
giving away a free tesla for example
that's expensive it's hard to make the
economics work a tesla car costs over
thirty thousand dollars it would take
you forever to make that money back and
you probably wouldn't make it back the
lower the cost the better
third you need something bigger to sell
those people on for example if you're
giving away something for free that cost
you a dollar you ideally want to sell
something that can make you hundreds of
dollars if not thousands at uber says we
give away software for free that most
people charge twenty dollars for a
hundred dollars sure we have some paid
plans but majority of the software's for
free we upsell people to consulting
services consulting services can cost
millions of dollars a year that's how we
make our money back
you see how it's worth giving away
something really affordable for cheap so
you can focus on something bigger now if
you have questions on how to implement
this for your business just leave a
comment below as i'm always here to help
or if you want my team to just help you
with your marketing check out my ad
agency np digital